Let's implement this first
part in our website.
So I'm going to open push.js.
So in push.js you will find already
a couple of functions that we
will use later.
They're tricky.
One of the problems here is that
the data that we received from here,
as you can see.
It's actually an arrayBuffer and
we need to send that to the server.
So we need to convert that into something
that we can send to the server.
So I'm converting that into text Base64,
blah blah blah.
To be honest,
on most cases when you have a website and
you want to implement web push.
What you're going to do is to
probably use a cloud based
solution that is everything
is already done for you.
Like Firebase, Microsoft Azure, and
Amazon's cloud, all the solutions.
They have an easy to
use web push solution.
So you're not going to probably
write this manually, your own.
We're going to do that to understand this
as vanilla plain JavaScript because it's
not so difficult.
The most difficult part is
probably on the servers part.
The server side that I already
have a quick solution, so
it's a plain solution,
also vanilla, in node.js.
But again, if you're using five arrays
from Google or Azure, you have that done.
You have an API, you just call the API and
say, hey, I wanna send a message.
You don't care about all the details.
So then what we want first here is we
wanna try to write code for push.
In our HTML we do have a section for
push with a btnPushSubscribe.
So I'm going to start reading that button,
click event handler.
That's the simplest part and
within the push.js file.
So it's going to be document,
our friend, getElementById.
And we're going to addEventListener for
the click, that simple.
Well, I did an old function but
we can use our own function
of course as well.
We can have two operations or only one.
Typically, we are doing
everything at once.
We request permission, and
also we request the push subscription.
But technically there
are two different steps.
So you can do this in two different
moments of your web app life cycle.
Commonly, you just do everything at once.
So the first step, let's say that
the service worker, we already have it so
we are not checking if service
worker API is available.
We are just going to try this directly.
One quick way to know if push
is available is checking
in the ServiceWorkerRegistrationPrototype.
It's a weird one, if we do have
showNotification, it's one way.
So that's a simple way to
check if the API is available.
Progressive enhancement, okay?
That means that web push is available.
So on the else,
we can log Web push not available.
For example, it's an iPhone
today that is not available.
What else?
Well,
maybe it can be a website
without the ServiceWorker.
It can be a website on HTTP, not HTTPS.
>> So
they also don't have a ServiceWorker?
>> Because they don't
have a ServiceWorker.
So at the end,
we are just asking about the same thing.
Okay, so when we are here then we
are ready to request permission.
Okay, and
that's the permission that we saw before.
It's actually pretty simple.
We take Notification.
We can check first if we
have permission or not.
Or we can just requestPermission.
And we are going to await for that.
And because we are doing a wait,
I'm converting my function
to an async function.
Okay, and yeah, we can,
Store the state in case we want to check.
And actually the API is pretty simple
to the periodic background sync.
We are following this, so
we just check for the string granted.
So that's how it works.
So it's a string.
If it's granted, this is an old permission
API in browsers but it's how it is.
So if it's granted then, We
can request push subscription.
Okay, make sense?
What happens if I'm requesting
permission and it was already granted?
Nothing, it will be granted.
So the state will be
granted automatically.
If it was denied this
permission in particular,
if it was denied it will
be denied automatically.
The user won't see a message typically.
Also I'm not covering
today a lot of complex
algorithms that some browsers have.
For example, Google Chrome has
also an engagement score but
not the one that we saw before.
It's more like a server
side engagement score.
If they know that you're abusing web
push they will not show any dialogue.
You will see in the URL bar a message
saying notification blocked immediately.
Even if it's a new user that has
just arrived to your website for
the first time.
But Chrome thinks that
you're abusing web push.
So then notifications will
be blocked by default.
You won't see even the dialogue.
And if the user wants notification,
the user needs to go manually to that
notification blocks icon and
enable that manually.
So that is suppose to increase
the user experience of
websites that are really
annoying about web push.
And it will try to push those developers
to make a better push implementation.
That's kind of idea.
Now if we are ready here
what we need is to talk to
our service worker registration.
So what we need is another
service worker registration.
That is navigator.serviceWorker dot.ready.
And when we have that
one now we need to talk
to the subscription to the pushManager.
It's pushManager.subscribe.
And we need to pass
an object with options.
And typically we await for the details.
Something like that.
And the subscribe has userVisibleOnly
with a mandatory true.
If you try false,
you will get an exception saying no.
We only support userVisibleOnly true.
And then we need
the application server key.